https://lastminuteengineers.com/nrf24l01-arduino-wireless-communication/

Hardware Overview:

Radio Frequency
- The nRF24L01+ transceiver module is designed to operate in 2.4 GHz worldwide ISM 
  frequency band and uses GFSK modulation for data transmission. 
- The data transfer rate can be one of 250kbps, 1Mbps and 2Mbps.

Power consumption

- The operating voltage of the module is from 1.9 to 3.6V, but the good news is that the 
  logic pins are 5-volt tolerant, so we can easily connect it to an Arduino or any 
  5V logic microcontroller without using any logic level converter.

- The module supports programmable output power viz. 0 dBm, -6 dBm, -12 dBm or -18 dBm 
  and consumes unbelievably around 12 mA during transmission at 0 dBm, which is even 
  lower than a single LED. And best of all, it consumes 26 µA in standby mode and 900 nA 
  at power down mode. That’s why they’re the go-to wireless device for low-power applications.

SPI Interface

- The nRF24L01+ transceiver module communicates over a 4-pin Serial Peripheral Interface (SPI) 
  with a maximum data rate of 10Mbps. All the parameters such as frequency channel 
  (125 selectable channels), output power (0 dBm, -6 dBm, -12 dBm or -18 dBm), and 
  data rate (250kbps, 1Mbps, or 2Mbps) can be configured through SPI interface.

- The SPI bus uses a concept of a Master and Slave, in most common applications our Arduino 
  is the Master and the nRF24L01+ transceiver module is the Slave. Unlike the I2C 
  bus the number of slaves on the SPI bus is limited, on the Arduino Uno you can use a 
  maximum of two SPI slaves i.e. two nRF24L01+ transceiver modules.

What is PA LNA?

- The PA stands for Power Amplifier. It merely boosts the power of the signal being transmitted 
  from the nRF24L01+ chip. Whereas, LNA stands for Low-Noise Amplifier. 
  The function of the LNA is to take the extremely weak and uncertain signal from the antenna 
  (usually on the order of microvolts or under -100 dBm) and amplify it to a more useful level 
  (usually about 0.5 to 1V).

- The low-noise amplifier (LNA) of the receive path and the power amplifier (PA) of the 
  transmit path connect to the antenna via a duplexer, which separates the two signals and 
  prevents the relatively powerful PA output from overloading the sensitive LNA input.

How nRF24L01+ transceiver module works?

RF Channel Frequency

- The nRF24L01+ transceiver module transmits and receives data on a certain frequency 
  called Channel. Also in order for two or more transceiver modules to communicate with 
  each other, they need to be on the same channel.(This channel could be any frequency in 
  the 2.4 GHz ISM band or to be more precise, it could be between 2.400 to 2.525 GHz 
  (2400 to 2525 MHz)).

- Each channel occupies a bandwidth of less than 1MHz. This gives us 125 possible channels
  with 1MHz spacing. So, the module can use 125 different channels which give a possibility 
  to have a network of 125 independently working modems in one place.
- RF channel frequency of your selected channel is set according to the following formula:
  Freq(Selected) = 2400 + CH(Selected)
  For example, if you select 108 as your channel for data transmission, the RF channel 
  frequency of your channel would be 2508MHz (2400 + 108)

nRF24L01+ Multiceiver Network

- The nRF24L01+ provides a feature called Multiceiver. It’s an abbreviation for Multiple 
  Transmitters Single Receiver. In which each RF channel is logically divided into 6 parallel 
  data channels called Data Pipes. (n other words, a data pipe is a logical channel in the 
  physical RF Channel.) Each data pipe has its own physical address (Data Pipe Address) and 
  can be configured.
- To simplify the above diagram, imagine the primary receiver acting as a hub receiver 
  collecting information from 6 different transmitter nodes simultaneously. 
  The hub receiver can stop listening any time and acts as a transmitter. But this can 
  only be done one pipe/node at a time.

Enhanced ShockBurst Protocol

- The nRF24L01+ transceiver module uses a packet structure known as Enhanced ShockBurst. 
  This simple packet structure is broken down into 5 different fields.

- The original ShockBurst structure consisted only of Preamble, Address, Payload and the 
  Cyclic Redundancy Check (CRC) fields. 

- Enhanced ShockBurst brought about greater functionality
  for more enhanced communications using a newly introduced Packet Control Field (PCF).
  
- This new structure is great for a number of reasons. Firstly, it allows for variable length 
  payloads with a payload length specifier, meaning payloads can vary from 1 to 32 bytes.

- Secondly, it provides each sent packet with a packet ID, which allows the receiving device to 
  determine whether a message is new or whether it has been retransmitted (and thus can be ignored).

- Finally, and most importantly, each message can request an acknowledgement to be sent when it is 
  received by another device.

RF24 Arduino Library for nRF24L01+ Module

